[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: Mongo is a NoSQL Database so
we don't have join tables.
I was talking about this earlier, but we
need a way of seeing relational data, so
the solution for
this is called population.
You can think of it as
a join table at call time.
So what does that look like, well imagine
this we have a dogschema it has an owner,
it's type is object id
it refers to a person.
Then we have a person schema
it just has a name, so
I make those two models,
I make a dog model, I make a person model.
All this we have done before.
It's not new, and
then what I wanna do is I say Dog.find
which gives me all the dogs and
I call this method called populate.
And I pass in the property on
the dogs that I want to populate.
In this case I want the populate
the owner fields, and
then I call this method called exact.
Exact, surface execute.
It will either return a promise,
which I'm using in this case, or
it also takes a call back.
A note style call back.
So, it's up to you.
You can pass it in note style callback
here, which is function error, and result.
Or you can use the promise,
which is up to you.
And if I'm looking at the dogs,
which is an array,
Each dog on there,
it's owner property will not be an ID.
It will be the object that the ID was
representing from the personal collection.
So what happens is when I call populate
on this owner, it's gonna be okay,
let me go to the owner field, let me grab
the object ID, let me go to the person's
collection, let me find the person with
the object ID Grab that object and
stick right here and
stick it right here on owner.
So now if you were to do dog dot
owner it would be an object and
the object would be
the person that owns the dog.
So we joined them for you.
It populated the id field with
the actual thing that it's referencing.
That's why we have to put this ref here so
it knows what collections
to go match the ids with.
>> Speaker 2: How many times does
the query Mongo for a statement like that?
>> Speaker 1: How many
times does it query?
>> Speaker 2: Does it query once
to get the dog collection and
then does it query per
dog filtered by owner?
>> Speaker 1: I don't know exactly
how they're doing it, so I can't,
I don't really want to count on that but,
I think a naive
solution would be doing once every time
but I think they have a way around that.
I am sure they are doing some
optimization with their refs and
object ids because they are indexed and
now they know where they are.
I don't think it will be
that type of operation.
Incredibly slow.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: So that's how you populate.
If you wanted to populate many fields,
so if we had another field up here that
needed populating, we can just put
a space after this word owner and
put the field that we wanna
populate there as well.
It'll also populate that.
Or you can also just do
.populate again and call that.
We also have fine grain control of what
fields on the thing we're trying
to populate, what do we want?
So in this case, this is going to
bring over the entire owner object.
Well let's say, well I guess
the owner only has a name, but
the owner had like three properties on it,
but all we wanted was the name.
We could put a comma after owner and
just be like just give me
the name of the owner.
So it would just send back an object
with the owner's name and nothing else.
So it's a little fine grain control.
>> Speaker 1: So again,
there is so much to do and so
many ways to do it with Mongoose and
Mongo.
Like I said,
it's another chorus on its own.
So I don't wanna get too deep into it, so
I just showed you the basic
things that you will be doing.
So, this would be enough to get you
started with the basic needs of our API.
And again remember, because the API
is restful, and it's all the same.
They all have the same routes.
If you write this queries once, with one
model, it's the exact same thing for
the other two models.
It's a different model.
It's the same operation.
nothings different about it, except when
you get into things like population for
instance on the post model.
This one's a little different because
you have to make sure you populate these
things when you call them whereas
the other two don't have populations,
they don't have any references.
The user model has no references,
the category model has no references, so
they're pretty straight forward.
This one, you just need to
make sure you populate them.
But they're still all
pretty much the same.
Find by ID, find, get that, get that.